title: Binging Euclidean Geometry
date: 2023-12-23 04:46
tags: math, geometry
---

## Geometry is Underrated

This is the story of how cyclic quadrilaterals, radical axes, and homothety
are gradually taking over my life.

After publishing the initial site, I decided to take a break from code to do
something else for a while. At first I was considering doing some drawing or
solving combinatorics problems, but strangely enough, I found myself picking up
a geometry book I bought some years ago.

If you've read my math page, you'll know that I enjoy discrete math, so it was
quite odd for me to suddenly crave for geometry. Perhaps the appeal was the
pretty diagrams I got to draw with compass and straightedge. I admit, there is
a certain meditative quality in patiently turning words into pictures.

But this was the tip of the iceberg. As I slowly made way through the book,
propositions, theorems, and lemmas, flew onto sheets of paper. As I slowly got
acquainted with these objects, I started solving problems. Soon I was craving
to get past the theory to fly straight into the wild west of exhilarating
problems.

One fun problem`(sidenote "The solution can be found elsewhere while I slowly
commit to digital writeups.")` I was immediately confronted with was the
following:

*Given a circle and a point inside of it, take all the chords through the point
and aggregate their midpoints. Prove that the resulting figure is a circle with
its diameter defined between the point and the center of the circle.*

The beauty of Euclidean geometry lies in its simple character. There are no
crazy equations`(sidenote "With the exceptions of rectilinear coordinates,
complex numbers, barycentric coordinates, linear algebra, etc.")`, no confusing
objects, no fancy notation, yet results are often astonishing. No wonder it's
called the **king** of mathematics. I guess in this sense, it's closer to the
elegance of discrete math than it is to something like algebra or analysis.

Unfortunately, geometry gets a bad rap in conventional education and other
academic institutions. It's often written off as "useless" and "trivial" by
many. In fact, Euclidean geometry is a dead topic among professional
mathematicians despite its historical origins. In a way though, the topic is a
hidden gemâ€”detached from the world, only showing itself to those who seek it.

It's often hard as a beginner to recognize the depth to which something simple
manifests. When I tried getting into geometry years ago, the theory seemed too
"fundamental" and the problems too "similar". Only now do I appreciate the true
depth that this humble subject has to offer. This is especially true after
solving neat, challenging Olympiad problems.

Of course, now that I have pages filled with diagrams of problems and solutions,
it only worsens my ever-increasing queue of "math to convert to LaTeX".
Diagrams are also more tedious because it requires additional tools like
Asymptote.

Nonetheless, geometry has a new place in my heart. Gone are the days of *yet
another find the length problem*. It's a field where more of its magic is
revealed the deeper you go. But go too far, and you'll start looking for
concyclic points in stars and raindrops.`(sidenote "My record is dreaming up
diagrams in my sleep, and apparently this is a phenomenon called the Tetris
effect. Besides geometric diagrams and Tetris blocks, I've also dreamt of Lisp
code.")`

That's pretty much what I've been up to lately. Excuse my bad writing, this is
being written at 4 AM in the morning. ;p
