title: Hobbies
---

# Hobbies

I tend to gravitate toward activities that use brainpower. This is probably why
I like strategy, puzzle, and narrative games.

On the other hand, with anime and indie games, I usually enjoy works that put
emphasis on overall aesthetics.

`(inject '(hr))`

## Anime

Check out [MyAnimeList](https://myanimelist.net/profile/niltnir) to stalk what
I've been watching.

Now, onto my rant.

I like anime where characters are unique and iconic. This certainly does not
mean the show has to be popular. In particular, one thing I look for is whether
the essence of each character is represented directly in their
animation/movement. If you watch carefully enough, you'll realize that this
quality is actually quite rare among television productions.

My current favorites are Miyazaki films, shows produced by Kyoto Animation
(especially in the early 2000s), and shows directed by Yuasa. There are many
others I love as well and for mostly the same sort of reasons.

My current position on fiction is to *prioritize characters over story.* From
this view, if the characters and the relationships between them are
well-designed, there will be plenty of opportunities to extend the narrative. I
find that fiction that focuses too extensively on the story and not enough on
its characters tends to fall flat after a few story arcs. Works where the
characters are more "iconic" seem to work regardless of whether a particular
narrative exists. For example, the narrative premise of *Tom & Jerry* never
changes, but the show is entertaining to watch. This quality is also true with
other "classic" shows (animated or not) and watchable slice-of-life anime such
as *K-On!* and *Nichijou*.

For me, at least, interesting characters with weak narratives often seem to
work better than boring characters with strong narratives. I can't get around
narratives with forgettable characters. However, this may be a matter of
personal preference`(sidenote "Another view is that characters and stories are
like chicken and egg. Interesting characters generate an enthralling narrative
which develops the characters which generates a deeper story…")`. There seem to
be enough people who despise some of the shows I listed above.

On the other hand, I don't think there is anything wrong with having a strong
narrative. In fact, if pulled off correctly, the best combination is obviously
having interesting characters with strong narratives. Perfect examples of this
are Nisioisin's *Monogatari* series and Pixar's *Up*. Each has highly memorable
characters with engaging storylines.

So to summarize, my point is to **not neglect the characters!** Thanks for
coming to my TED Talk.

`(inject '(hr))`

## Puzzles

- Baba is You
  - I found and solved 214 of the original 219 levels… Those last five though…
  - [This level](https://babaiswiki.fandom.com/wiki/Maritime_Adventures) has
    shorter solutions, but I somehow managed to discover a strange alternative.
- Rubik's Cube and friends
- Wire Puzzles
- Recreational Math Puzzles
- Escape Rooms

I've never done a real-life escape room or a puzzle hunt, but I am curious.

`(inject '(hr))`

## Games

- Japanese Mahjong
- Chess/Shogi
- Othello/Reversi
- Card Games
- Tetris
- Indie Games
- Narrative Games`(sidenote "Instead of playing narrative games myself, I like
  watching others play them.")` (e.g., Visual Novels, Free "JRPG"s)
- Conway's Game of Life

A game I'm interested in learning is Go.
