title: About
---

# About Me

I am a student and creator with interests interspersed between math, computing,
design, and visual arts. My background is non-traditional with most of my
skills, knowledge, and expertise coming from self-study and working on several
personal projects. I began unschooling halfway through secondary school and am
currently not associated with an academic institution.

`(inject '(hr))`

## [Math](math)

I became fascinated with mathematical problem-solving contests upon leaving
school. I probably learned more math in those years than in all prior
years of schooling combined. At some point, I received a few 'awards' for
performance. One was a performance of distinction at the Canadian Open
Mathematics Challenge ([COMC](https://cms.math.ca/competitions/comc/)), and
another was a qualification to the American Invitational Math Examination
([AIME](https://maa.org/math-competitions/american-invitational-mathematics-examination-aime)).

Unfortunately, I only had two shots at these contests due to age restrictions
(I wish I had known about them earlier!), but I had a lot of fun preparing for
and participating in them. Through these contests, I learned the art of
problem-solvingâ€”a skill that requires inventing new paths in the face of
apparent dead ends.

I also gained a love of solving what are known as 'Olympiad`(sidenote "The
Olympiad culture has a rich and deep history dating back to East Europe in the
early 20th century.")` problems': difficult proof problems whose essay-format
solutions require clever insights. My favorite problems are in number theory
and combinatorics.

More recently, I've started diving into areas of higher math, one of which is
real analysis. I may start linking [notes](/math#mathnotes) as I learn new
things.

`(inject '(hr))`

## [Computing & Software](cs)

On the software side, unsurprisingly, everything I know is self-taught. I've
worked on/been working on several [projects](/cs/software.html), the most
significant of which is a web application called
[Zedigo](/cs/software.html#zedigo). My language of choice is Lisp,
with Javascript being my arch-nemesis. Unfortunately, JS is something I'm
forced upon`(sidenote "Javascript's biggest strength arguably lies outside
the language specification itself: its ginormous ecosystem.")` because Zedigo
requires a highly interactive front-end (although Typescript can make DX
significantly better). I use Vim for most of my editing, but switch to Emacs
evil-mode when working on Lisp projects. You can find my dotfiles
[here](https://github.com/niltnir/dotfiles).

Within computing itself, I love classical symbolic computation with a budding
interest in PLT. I learned Common Lisp around the same time I discovered SICP,
and since then, the way I produce software has dramatically improved. The
harmony of homoiconicity, source manipulation, macros, and embedded DSLs have
fundamentally changed how I view and think about programming.

`(inject '(hr))`

## [Art & Design](art)

I mainly "learned" how to draw/make art through osmosis. Ever since I was a
child, I've always loved drawing and creating. Over time, my drawings started
to resemble what I wanted them to be, and the limits of what I produced became
the limits of my taste and imagination.

Recently though, I've begun studying several books on drawing for animation.
Having forgone 'formal' art training, I became curious about what I missed.

So far, the journey has been incredibly rewarding. Gesture drawing, in
particular, has given me the tools to "tell a story" with drawings. Walt
Stanchfield's handouts in *Drawn to Life* have helped me internalize this.
Richard Williams' *The Animator's Survival Kit* and Disney Animation's classic
*Illusion of Life* have also helped me further my craft with techniques built
upon grounded principles. Most of the improvements in animation you see
[here](/art#animation) come directly from grokking those principles.

Interestingly, these learnings have also contributed to my ability to design.
For example, being aware of silhouettes helps in drawing characters that "read
clearly," as well as in designing memorable logos and posters. Emphasizing
three-dimensional space makes both drawings and designs more interesting to
look at.

`(inject '(hr))`

## [Prose](prose)

I often use writing to clarify ideas that come to mind or solidify vague
notions and intuitions I start to become aware of. These take the form of
[essays](/prose/essay). These essays are not designed to persuade but are
written in an attempt to understand something. As such, my essays try to stay
more in line with the original notion of an 'essay': a term originating from
the French 'essayer' meaning 'to try'. My inspiration for writing mainly comes
from people whose [writings](/prose#greats) have contributed to my current
worldview.

Contrary to essays, I also decided to start a [blog](/prose/blog). These are
either for informal updates in my life or anything I want to publicly share.
The advantage of having a blog instead of a microblog like Twitter or Mastodon
is that my speech is not limited to a few hundred characters. I also get full
control over what media I present and how I present it. The reach may not be as
far, but the depth I get in return is worth the price.

`(inject '(hr))`

## [Hobbies](hobbies)

Aside from my interests above, I enjoy the following:

- Watch niche anime
- Watch other people play games
- Spend too much time on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia)
- Swim
- Play analog games
- Solve puzzles
- Read manga & [webcomics](https://xkcd.com)
